unit 1 introduction good morning miss
Anderson how are you today fine thanks
Arun
I'm fine thank you please follow me
we'll meet in the conference room okay
are you mr. Thomas yes I am thank you
for coming
of course would you like a glass of
water or a cup of coffee before you
begin no thanks I'm fine
all right then please come with me sure
hello mrs. Dewey yes could you give me
one minute I'll be right with you
sure Thanks okay thanks for waiting
please follow me
please sit down
how are you doing this morning
I'm fine thank you thanks for being
patient things are quite busy here right
now it's no problem
hello yes hello may I help you yes I'm
here to see mr. Davis about the
accounting position right
I'm mr. Davis glad to meet you I do meet
you sit down
could I have you fill out this
application form
sure take your time just let me know
when you're finished okay unit 2
self-description
so tell me a little bit about yourself
well my name is joy Brown I'm 27 years
old and I'm single how would you
describe your personality I'm
hard-working eager to learn I enjoy
working with other people and I love
challenges could you tell me something
about yourself yes my name is Julie
Thompson I'm married I have three kids
one son and two daughters how would you
describe yourself I like being with
people and helping people I enjoy
problem solving and challenging work and
I'm serious about my work but I also
like to have fun tell me a little about
yourself
my name is Annette Johnson but most
people call me Anne I'm originally from
Boston but I've lived in Fianna for
eight years now may I ask how old you
are
I'm 24 have you finished your studies I
graduated from the University of
Washington in June and I hope to find a
full-time job now could you describe
yourself briefly sure my name is Andrew
Wilson I'm 30 years old and I'm single
are you originally from Los Angeles no
I'm originally from San Francisco I
moved to Los Angeles over ten years ago
as a student describe your personality
to me well I'm a dedicated worker and a
people person I enjoy working as a team
I also like to be in contact with the
public can you tell me something about
yourself yes I graduated from Stanford
University with a BA in management after
I graduated I worked in hotel management
for six years in New York City and I
also enjoy working with PR and customer
service do you have any family
obligations yes I'm married with a
two-year-old daughter and I also help
support my parents
three educational experience please tell
me about your educational background I
graduated from Cornell University in
1994 with a BA in computer science why
did you choose computer science well
ever since I've been young I've been
interested in computers so when I
entered University I thought that a
career in computers would be a good
choice have you ever studied outside of
the university yes I've studied on my
own and I took an evening course in a
small computer school tell me a little
about your educational background sure I
received a bachelor's degree in history
from Houston University in 1990 after
that I studied at the University of
Texas and received my MBA in 1993 why
did you choose the University of Texas
for your master's degree I visited the
campus and I met some of the professors
and I really liked it how will your
education help you with this position my
education has taught me how to work hard
and how to succeed it also taught me a
lot about society and the business
environment please tell me about your
formal education well I just graduated
from Kansas State University two months
ago with a bachelor's degree in business
administration how was your experience
there it was a very good experience for
me I learned a lot it was challenging
and rewarding can you tell me about your
education yes I studied political
science at Michigan State University in
Lansing for four years I got my
bachelor's degree in 1994 the past few
years I've been attending Union law
school on the weekends but I haven't
finished yet do you plan to finish your
law degree I hope to finish this year
tell me about your educational
background
I graduated from Texas Christian
University with a bachelor's in
accounting I also minored in business
technology how is your education helped
with your work it taught me the basics
of accounting and also about business it
taught me how to solve problems and how
to work hard unit for previous job
experience can you tell me about your
previous job experience please sure
while I studied at University I worked
as an intern at Avery publishing I
worked in the main office after I
graduated I worked in the same place
full time I worked in administration at
the main office I was there for four
years tell me about your experience
there as an office intern I just helped
with office support when I became
full-time I was an administration
assistant I helped my boss with her
projects how did you like the company I
liked the company very much the people
were very nice and we all worked
together very well please tell me about
your previous job experience yeah well
I've been a secretary for ten years now
I first started in 1991 with Johnson &
Johnson I worked with them for six years
I left when I got married and we moved
to Denver then I worked with United
Parcel services for four years has your
experience been good yes yes I've
learned a lot about management and
develop my job skills could you please
describe your previous job experience
yes I graduated from University in 1990
and started working for Sanwa Bank I've
been with saw my bank up until now why
are you leading I'm looking for a job as
more responsibility and flexibility
I see we never promoted yes twice and
how would you describe your experience
there it was a good experience the
people were great the benefits were good
but I'm still looking for better
prospects please tell me about your
previous work experience well I've been
working in sales and marketing for three
years now the first company that I
worked for media where went out of
business after I was there just one year
I then went to work for Universal
systems for two years and have just been
laid off can you tell me about your past
work history please yes when I was
studying at university I volunteered at
my local hospital after I graduated I
worked at st. Andrews Hospital for about
three years as a nurse after that I
worked in hospital administration with
the Red Cross and I've been there until
now unit five special skills
do you have any special skills that
would help you do this job yes I'm
pretty good with computers I've used
Microsoft Office a lot and I know how to
troubleshoot problems how fast can you
type
I can type about 60 words a minute any
other skills that would help you well I
speak fluent Mandarin Chinese and I can
read and write it fairly well do you
have any other skills that might help
you on this job yes I have a secretarial
experience I can answer phone calls
here's a computer type 60 words a minute
and speak French and Japanese I also
have good organizational skills how
about doing PR I also have experience
with PR when I worked in admissions at
Carleton College I dot with the public
daily what skills do you have that would
help you on this job I have computer
experience I can use Microsoft NT Word
and Excel
I speak some Japanese and I'm good at
sales and networking as well what
special skills do you have for this job
I have good organizational skills I
worked as head office administrator for
a while I had to organize the staff in
the office layout do you have any
computer skills I'm familiar with
Microsoft Office and I've worked with
Windows NT mm-hmm
do you speak any other languages I can
speak German and some Russian do you
have any special job skills that would
help you do your job well
I have many contacts in the
communication sector from my previous
job I also have knowledge of Japanese
culture and language I used to live in
Tokyo how are you research skills pretty
good I did a lot of research when I was
at the University and I also did a lot
of research on the Internet at my
previous job unit 6 the ideal job
could you describe your ideal job yes my
ideal job would be challenging but
secure tell me more
why challenging well I'd like to improve
my secretarial skills and I'd like to be
interested in my work mm-hmm
what kind of hours are you looking for
I'm looking for full-time work I can
work weekend but I'd like to have
evenings off what's your ideal job I
would like to be a full-time computer
programmer after 4:18 with a team but I
also enjoy working individually what
kind of hours would you prefer I'm
flexible but I prefer to have the
weekends off would you be willing to
work one day during the weekend yes that
would be fine
could you describe your ideal job yeah
that's a good question
I'd like to work in a challenging job in
marketing I would like to work for an
international financial company I'd
enjoy doing some travel and meeting new
people and what kind of hours would you
like I'd like regular daytime hours on
weekdays and Saturday hours once in a
while what kind of job is ideal for you
my ideal job would be working as an
office manager at an international
school I prefer to market a place where
I can use my French and English skills I
would like to work steady hours without
having to travel too much what would be
your ideal job I would be a PR
representative for major international
airline I would love to travel around
the world and meet all kinds of people
unit 7 describe your greatest strengths
weaknesses what is your greatest
strength my greatest strength is
persistence I work really hard and I
don't give up easily can you give me an
example yes when I was a student I had
problems with a physics class I didn't
get that though I got up tutor and
studied really hard
finally I passed the class with an A do
you have any examples at work yes when I
was manager at charter insurance
we had a very important coded deadline I
wouldn't stop working till we met the
quota I talked to the staff and we all
worked really hard to meet the deadline
what about your greatest weakness my
greatest weakness would be that I'm not
trained in accounting I can still learn
though how would you describe your
greatest strengths I think my greatest
strength is my dependability you can
depend on me to be on time
you can depend on me to get my work
finished on time and you can depend on
me to be professional and what about
your greatest weakness hmm
this could be my experience I've only
worked full-time for two years now I
think I need more experience what's your
greatest strength I think my greatest
strength is my creativity sometimes my
boss would ask my advice on a project
because of my creativity can you give me
an example yes once my boss was quite
upset because we weren't filling our
monthly quotas he asked my advice and I
told him some advertising ideas we tried
them and soon our monthly quota was
filled very good now can you please tell
me about your greatest weakness my
greatest weakness would probably be my
educational background I studied music
but I'm working in business now can you
tell me what your greatest strengths is
think it's my quick thinking and
decision-making there have been many
times when I've been under pressure and
made the right decisions how about your
greatest weakness
probably my computer skills I know a
little bit but I need to learn a lot
more what's your greatest strengths as a
manager it's my ability to understand
and encourage people I enjoy working
with different kinds of people from all
kinds of backgrounds what about your
greatest weakness now I think this is my
experience I'm still young and gaining
experience and management unit 8
interests and free time what are some of
your personal interests outside of work
well I've really enjoyed gardening it
helps me relax I also enjoy learning
foreign languages what foreign languages
have you studied currently I'm studying
Chinese and Japanese in the past I've
studied German as well can you tell me
about some of your hobbies or personal
interests well I'm usually very busy
taking care of my children and doing
housework but when I do have free time I
like to read and listen to music please
tell me about your interests outside of
work I love learning about computers
sometimes I do programming work for my
friends but I have free time what do you
do to relax or to have fun I like
listening to music and I enjoy playing
basketball what are some things that you
do in your free time
well I love cooking I've taken several
classes on cookie
I also like to play tennis whenever I
can I play tennis with my friends what
are some of your hobbies or personal
interests I enjoy reading and playing
the guitar I also enjoy surfing the
internet and swimming unit 9 reasons for
leaving a previous job why did you leave
your previous job my company was
downsizing because of the economy so I
was laid off other people had been there
for over 10 years and I had only been
there for two so I was laid off first
what are the reasons for leaving your
last job they cut my hours I wanted to
work full-time but they only wanted
part-time workers why are you looking
for another job
there is no growth potential at my
current job I would like to work for a
company that has more room to grow could
you tell me why you've decided to leave
your current job well there are problems
inside the company the some of the
managers do not agree with the company
policies can you be more specific
yes the company does not want to allow
foreign investment and management but
some of us disagree why did you resign
from your previous position my company
was opening branches in other parts of
the country my boss told me I had to
transfer I couldn't move
so I had to resign unit 10 handling
pressure
how do you handle pressure I work very
well with pressure I prepare for it
before it comes can you give me an
example when I worked at Citibank we had
many deadlines to meet I never waited
until the last minute to do my work
always finished it ahead of time how do
you deal with the public I try to treat
my customers with respect and patience
how do you handle all stressful
situations
I try to stay as calm as possible
learning with the customer I like to be
respectful and responsible can you give
me an example from your personal
experience yes when I was working with
Universal systems as a secretary a
customer came in and he was very angry
about his bill so he spoke calmly and
told him to relax once he calmed down we
talked about the problem and solved it
he walked away happy and so was I how do
you deal with stressful situations and
work I've had many stressful situations
at work I always try to stay patient
whenever I'm feeling stressed I breathe
deeply to calm down is there anything
else that you do I try to talk to people
to tell them how I feel if I'm having a
problem of the customer I try to talk
politely if I have some other kind of
stress at work I talked to my co-workers
or my boss to tell them how I feel that
usually helps how do you work under
pressure well I'm pretty good with
pressure can you give me an example yes
as an accountant I have to meet monthly
deadlines this can make my work very
stressful but I've learned that working
hard and staying calm always allows me
to meet these deadlines how
you handle stressful situations I handle
them professionally and patiently I have
had experience with stressful situations
at work I always tried to prepare myself
before the stressful situations happen
then if they happen I can handle them
without any trouble can you give me an
example sure if there are two phones
ringing and a customer waiting to be
helped I ask the customer if they can
wait for a minute then I answer the
phones and put them on hold next I tried
to help the customer quickly and
politely
lastly I'll take the phone calls unit 11
other questions are you able to travel
yes I am very traveling are you willing
to relocate yes I am would you be able
to travel sure I don't mind traveling
what about relocating would you be able
to relocate um
relocating would be difficult you see I
have a family with three children I
guess I could relocate but it would not
be easy are you able to work weekends
when I connect Saturdays but not Sundays
are you able to work odd hours I prefer
to work in the daytime but I don't mind
doing some odd hours are you considering
any other jobs yes I have applied to
several other positions and I'm
considering them as well we may not be
able to let you know about this position
until next week are you still interested
yes I'm still very interested okay we'll
be in touch by next week then oh okay
thank you very much thank you for coming
what are your salary requirements I'm
looking for at least thirty thousand
this position starts at thirty five
thousand is this okay yes that would be
fine are there opportunities for
dance meant yes you are evaluated for
raises and bonuses every year unit 12
why do you want this job why do you want
to work for us when I saw the job
advertisement I became very interested I
have friends who are customers here they
said that they like doing business here
as well I also feel that I'm qualified
for the job why should we hire you
because I have experience and a strong
desire to succeed why do you want to
work here because this company has a
good reputation and why should we hire
you but I think I have the right
personality and skills and I also have
experience and motivation why do you
want this job because I know I can do
this job well why should we hire you
because of my drive and commitment can
you tell me why you want this job well
the description sounded very interesting
and I think I can succeed at it why
should we choose you for this job I'm a
very committed worker and I love
challenges like this why do you want to
work here I want the challenge of
working at a large international firm
why should we hire you over another
person because I'm qualified and because
I have the will to succeed unit 13 do
you have any questions do you have any
questions for me yes what is the
starting salary the starting salary is
$35,000 a year plus benefits and what
are the hours of the job well the office
opens at 7 a.m. most people usually take
a one-hour lunch break around noon and
then
about 4:00 p.m. but the office doesn't
close until 6:00 p.m. so you can stay
later if you'd like do you have any
questions may I ask what the specific
responsibilities for this position sure
you'll be expected to be in the office
during office hours which is from 8 a.m.
until 5:30 p.m. Monday through Friday
you'll also be expected to answer
incoming telephone calls and to help
walk-in customers you'll also be
expected to work with typing filing and
some data entry can you tell me about
the history of the company the history
sure we started our company in 1980 and
we began in New York but we moved here
in 1990 since then we've opened in ten
states across the eastern US would you
like to ask me any questions what kind
of person are you looking for well we're
looking for a responsible person who can
handle pressure someone with experience
and training is good but not necessary
do you offer any kind of educational or
training programs for employees yes we
offer free computer training for
full-time employees and there's also
some on-the-job training at the
beginning so do you have any questions
yes what is the focus of this company
the focus of our company is to provide
the best service to our customers in
this industry and that's the starting
salary the starting annual salary is
$26,000 we also provide health insurance
for our employees ok and do you have a
dress code yes only business attire
slacks
or long dresses for women no t-shirts
are shorts sandals are alright but they
must have a strap on the heel do you
have any questions to ask me yes
is this a new position no actually it's
not the last person was transferred to a
branch in Canada we needed to fill this
position immediately in which countries
does this company operate we have
operations in the US and Canada but we
also have partners in Europe who do
business in Germany and the UK might I
be asked to travel or relocate it's
possible but not likely and can you
describe the corporate culture in this
company sure most of our employees are
from the United States but we do have
some people working here from Australia
Canada and the UK most of us are young
but we have people working here who have
been here for over ten years
we're very hardworking people but we
like to have fun sometimes we get
together on the weekends informally unit
14 getting a job offer I'd like to offer
you the job are you still interested yes
I am when can I start
how is Monday that would be good okay
then I'll see you Monday at 8 a.m. okay
I'll see you then okay bye bye bye
are you still interested in the job yes
I am good when can you start
well I have to give notice of my present
job first I'll be able to start in two
weeks time Oh sounds good so you can
start on Monday the 20th then sure I'll
see you then okay oh yeah please
remember to bring your ID card and
passport
we need them to make
copies for our records sure no problem
I'll see you on the 20th okay then
bye-bye goodbye mr. Smith I'd like to
offer you the job are you still
interested yes I am great could you
start tomorrow tomorrow it's fine
okay why don't you come at nine o'clock
we'll give you a tour and have you fill
out some paperwork sure please bring a
list of references and to passport
photos okay I'll see you then okay
well I've talked with the others and
we've decided to offer you the job would
you like to work for us yes I'm ready to
start as soon as possible
great we'd like you to be here at 7:00
o'clock on the morning of the 3rd of
next month okay I'll see you then is
there anything else you'd like to know
mm-hmm oh yes where can I park my car oh
that's a good question you can park your
car downstairs in the parking lot for
free okay I'll see you on the third okay
see you then okay thank you bye-bye
[Applause]
I'd like to offer you the position do
you still want it thank you but I've
accepted another job already oh well
that's okay good luck to you thank you
you're welcome
what's your job what's your job I'm the
student and the student what do you do
or what do you do for a living I'm an
English teacher I'm an English teacher
number three what's your father's job
what's your father's job or what does
your father do what does your father do
and then you say he's a he's a
construction worker he's a construction
worker number four are you a chef are
you a chef yes that's right or no I mean
here and then I'm an engineer is your
sister a nurse is your sister a nurse
remember sis sister yes she is no she's
a chef no seizure chef what job would
you like to do or what job do you want
to do or you can add the word in the
future what job do you want to do in the
future or what job would you like to do
in the future I would like to become an
architect or I want to become an
architect
remember our this is the vowel letter so
we have to use and and remember remember
before the consonant letter we use okay
before a job we have to use one I would
like to become an architect I want to
become an architect do you want to be a
locksmith like do you like to be a
locksmith yeah that's an interesting job
if you like it you say that's an
interesting job sorry
that's an interesting job or if you
don't like it you say no I'm not into it
I'm not into it that means that means I
do like it you can say I do like it or
I'm not into it okay would you like to
sorry do you want to become a locksmith
yeah that's an interesting job or no I'm
not into it
number three is remember s this is Z and
this is why and when we act we linked Z
and Y to get away sighs your is your is
your trap interesting it's sort of
interesting I'll remember these were
interested don't say in the rest okay
usually with the interest interesting
yeah I meet lots of interesting people
yeah you can answer anything that
anything that you like about your job
and then I can suggest here I meet lots
of interesting people or not really and
then you can answer
why you don't like it I have to work
long hours every day I have to work long
hours every day or you can say that I
have to spend all that I have to sit all
day I have to do the same thing every
day it's a worry okay it's your job
interesting yeah I meet lots of
interesting people
not really I have to work long hours
every day how long have you been working
as a pallet as a pallet that means that
you are a pallet and how long have you
been working in that job so how long
have you been working as a pallet how
long have you been working as a pallet I
have been doing this job for five years
or since 2014 for four maybe life or
sometimes four particular times like for
the amount of time maybe like five years
two weeks a month or maybe five months
so you can say for five years
and since since and then you need you
know like a a particular time like 2014
or last summer or April okay so since
2014 I have been doing this job for five
years I have been doing this job since
2014 or you can say 2014 okay do you
like the people you work with that mean
do you like your colleagues do you like
your coworker
do you like the people you work with yes
of course if it is true yes of course
they are interesting interests remember
doing the interest or interest okay
interest interesting of course yes of
course they are interesting not really
really that rare okay
we're not really there
not very freely if you don't like them
you can say not really they are not very
friendly or they are not really helpful
okay they are not very friendly what do
you like about your job what do you like
about your job
I have chances to visit lots of
countries every year